Kathryn Brusewitz  
INFO 200 BC  
Dr. David Stearns  
15 November 2016  

Response to _Information Privacy_
=================================
EU's "right to be forgotten ruling" clearly states that "someone who wants information about them taken out of the index will have to apply to [the search engine]" - Google in particular, but any search engine that does business in the EU must abide. That information will then be decided if it must remain for the public interest. EU's view of privacy extends to information about people, and incorrect and outdated information should be removed from the index if someone requests it to be removed. However, the information would still exist - it is only the indexing that is removed. Key characteristics of the information in question that must be met for removal are that it must be: "inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant, [and] excessive in relation to the purposes of the processing". Additionally, the information is also tested in its relevancy and usefulness to the general public interest.

On one hand, it can be argued that the "right-to-be-forgotten" is censorship, as it is essentially about withholding information. It is prone to abuse, it is vague, and it is subjective. The EU ruling says information can be removed provided that it is "inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant, [and] excessive" - which is argued to be too subjective and vague. Additionally, serious crimes, criticism, and unflattering reviews, have already been successfully hidden under the EU ruling. On the other hand, information can contain elements of both truth, exageration, and lies. Information made to incriminate someone can also be the only information found about them. A researchers view on this person will be colored by the only information found on the person. This presents potential biases in things such as the hiring process in a company. Those who have made a mistake in the past may forever be unable to be successful in the rest of their life due to information on their mistake, which may no longer be relevant to their character and person as a whole today. From my perspective, I feel that the "right-to-be-forgotten" should be adopted, but is applied with specific rules and should go hand-in-hand with EU's policy of not making people's names and faces public in media without consent. Crimes should be reported on, and they are of interest to government, to the extent of having a trial, being incarcerated, keeping a criminal record, and be able to judge their state of mental health. For public interest, knowing a crime has been committed and the nature of the crime is important and potentially useful. Publicizing the name may however forever taint their name and restrict their own personal growth, as being welcomed back in society may become unjustifiably harder. Thus, a cycle of living life in criminality becomes harder to escape. 

References
----------
Arthur, C. (2014, May 14). _Explaining the 'right to be forgotten' – the newest cultural shibboleth_. [Website]. Retrieved from https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/may/14/explainer-right-to-be-forgotten-the-newest-cultural-shibboleth

NPR Staff. (2015, March 18). _Debate: Should The U.S. Adopt The 'Right To Be Forgotten' Online?_. [Website]. Retrieved from http://www.npr.org/2015/03/18/393643901/debate-should-the-u-s-adopt-the-right-to-be-forgotten-online